ADMIRAL
11-15% Alpha Acids • English • Bittering Hop
Said to be citrusy, orange flavored. A good compliment hop to Targets. Good
dual purpose hop.
Use For: English style IPA and other ales
Substitutes: Challenger, Northdown
 
AHTANUM
3.5-6% Alpha Acids • American • Finishing Hop
This hop is used for its Aromatic properties and moderate bittering. It has
aromas that citrus (Grapefruit), earthy, and floral.
Use For: American Style ales
Substitutes: Amarillo, Cascade 
 
AMARILLO
8-10% Apha Acids • American • Bittering, Flavor
Popular American mid-range alpha acid variety with a unique and distinct aroma.
It has a flowery, citrus like aroma, more orange than grapefruit.
Used For: Pale Ales, IPAs, Porters
Substitutes: Cascade, Centennial
THIS_HOP_IS_IN_STOCK!!_Click_here_to_purchase
 
APOLLO
18-21% Alpha Acids • American • Bittering Hop
Characterized by its exceptionally high percentage of Alpha Acids, it has
excellent storage stability. It has citrus notes, with emphasis on orange. It
is resiny, and spicy.
Use For: Any beer with a big hop profile, definitely all american!
Substitutes:Magnum, Columbus
 
AQUILA 6-7.5% Finishing
Recently developed as an aroma hop originating in the U.S.
Use For: American ales
Substitutes: Cluster, Galena 
 
BANNER 9-11% Dual Purpose
Similar to Aquila and Cluster with good yield.
Used For:Bittering with good flavor. Light and dark American lagers.
Substitutes:Aquila, Cluster, Galena 
 
BRAMLING CROSS 5-8% All Purpose
Variety Bramling crossed with a male seedling from a Manitoba female.
Blackcurrant, lemony aroma.
Used For: Can be good for spiced ales
Substitutes: Bullion, Northern Brewer and Galena 
 
BRAVO
14-17% Bittering
New Super High Alpha. The higher Co-Ho levels mean a not completely smooth
bittering, but not as harsh as Chinook. (it's bittering properties are similar
to Simcoe). Flavor and aroma are described as an earthy spice and herb, fruity
and floral, so, I guess that is is different things to different people. It's a
decendant of Zeus and Nugget.
Used For: American IPA, American Pale Ale, American Stout
Substitutes: Columbus, Tomahawk, Zeus 
 
BREWERS GOLD 6-9% All Purpose
Sibling of and similar to Bullion only maturing earlier and more disease
resistant. English/wild Canadian cross. Pungent English character.
Used for: Mainly bittering. Stouts and Dark ales.
Substitutes: Bullion, Northern Brewer and Galena ,Bramling Cross.
 
BULLION
6.5-9%  Bittering
Intense,black currant aroma, spicy and pungent.  One of the earliest high alpha
hops in the world. Raised in 1919
in England from a wild Manitoban female crossed with an English male hop.
Used for: Mainly bittering. Stouts and Dark ales.
Substitutes: Brewers Gold, Northern Brewer and Galena ,Bramling Cross, Mt
Ranier 
 
CALYPSO
10- 12.0% Dual Purpose Hop
Pleasant, fruity aroma, with hints of pear and apple
Used For: Ales, Stouts and Barley Wines.
Substitutes:  
 
CASCADE
4-7%  All purpose 
Flowery, citrus &amp; spice with grapefruit the noticeable fragrance quite
often. This medium aroma balances the low bittering value. Derived from a cross
between fuggles and the Russian hop Serebrianker. Very popular hop among craft
brewers.
Used For: Good for flavor and aroma, but an acceptable bittering hop. Pale
Ales, IPAs, Porters
Substitutes: Amarillo, Centennial, Ahtanum

CENTENNIAL
9-11% Bittering - Aroma  
Flowers &amp; citrus most evident. A medium aroma with mid to high bittering
value makes it a dual purpose choice. Cross between Brewer's Gold and a
selected USDA male.  
Used For: Aromatic but acceptable for bittering. Medium to Dark American Ales,
IPAs.
Substitutes: Cascade, Amarillo

CHALLENGER (UK)
7-10% All purpose
Mild to Moderate aroma, quite spicy. One of the few recognized all-purpose hops
combining moderate amounts of alpha acid with a good kettle aroma.
Used For: Popular bittering hop used primarily in the UK.  British ales and
lagers
Substitutes: Northern Brewer, Perle 
 
CHINOOK
11-13% Bittering 
Mild to medium-heavy, spicy, distinct piney aroma like a pine forest washed
with exotic spice and infused with grapefruit. This alluring aroma and a high
bittering value has gained this hop full respect from craft &amp; major
brewers.   Cross between Petham Golding and USDA select male 
Used For: Strong bittering ability. Most beer styles from Pale Ales to Lagers
Substitutes:: Eroica, Galena,Cluster,Nugget, Bullion 
 
CITRA
10-11% All Purpose
Very fruity Citrus, peach, apricot, passion fruit, grapefruit, lime, melon,
gooseberry, lychee fruit, pineapple, mango, papaya and other tropical fruit
flavors and aromas.  A very new high alpha Hallertauer Mittelfrüh, Tettnanger,
EKG  hybrid with distinctive citrus aroma.
Use For: Pale ales, IPA
Substitutes: Simcoe ,and other fruity citrusy "C" hops 
 
CLUSTER
5.5-8.5% All Purpose
Floral aroma, Excellent general purpose hop with medium and well-balanced 
bittering potential and no undesirable aroma properties. Good for Dark beers.
Used For: Bittering with good flavor. Light and dark American lagers.
Substitutes: Galena,Chinook, Eroica.

COLUMBIA 12-16% Bittering
A Centenial substitute. Very pungent, aromatic, and clean tasting.
Used For: ambers, ales, pale ales, porters and stouts.
Substitutes: Centennial, chinook, eroica 
 
COLUMBUS
13-16% All Purpose
Earthy, spicy, pungent, with some citrus overtones.  Not overwhelmingly citrus
like Cascade. High on the bittering scale yet also valued for its oil content
creates a hop that is an interesting dichotomy of sharp and herbal, suprisingly
pleasant aroma.  
Used For: Bittering mainly, good flavor. American IPAs &amp; Pale Ales, Stout,
Lager
Substitutes: Centennial, Chinook, Galena, Nugget, AKA Zeus/Tomahawk

COMET 8-11% Bittering
A rare U.S. hop. Used primarily for their bittering character. Wild American
aroma that is objectionable to some brewers, Comet today is no longer grown
commercially.
Used For: Most ales and lagers
Substitutes: Galena

CRYSTAL
3-5%   Finishing  
Mild and pleasant, a delicate blend of spices and flowers. Low bittering value
adds to the charm. Known as a triploid, three hops contributing
characteristics: Cascade, Brewer's Gold and Early Green..  
Used For: Aroma.  German-style Pilsner, Lager, Kölsch, ESB, Belgian Ales
Substitutes: Liberty,Mt. Hood,German Hallertau, Ultra 
 
DELTA
6.5% Dual Purpose
Aroma Type Hop Mild and pleasant, slightly spicy with a hint of citrus.  Still
experimental
Used For: American Pale ales, American IPA, experiment with new styles
Substitutes:

EROICA  11-13% All Purpose
Aroma is quite strong, but not unpleasant. Better aroma than many high alpha
acid hops. Suitable for general bittering. Bred by open pollination of Brewer's
Gold.
Used For: bittering and good aroma for high alpha hops (use sparingly). Pale
ales, dark ales and Stouts
Substitutes: Chinook,Cluster,Galena,Nugget.

FIRST GOLD 6-9% All Purpose
Pleasant citrus/apricot nose that is outstanding in ESB's, IPA's, or fruit
beers.  Dwarf hop with fine English Golding character with Higher alpha.
Use For: English style ales, porters, fruit beers
Substitutes: any Golding variety 
 
FUGGLE
4.0-5.5%   Finishing
Classic English aroma hop with moderate bittering value. Mild and pleasant,
spicy, soft, woody, with some fruit tones. Also known over-seas as Styrian
Golding.
Used For: Finishing, Dry hopping. English ales, especially Pale ales, Porters,
Stouts.
Substitutes: Willamette, East Kent Goldings, Styrian Goldings.
 
GALAXY_[PELLET]
11-13%  All Purpose
Australian high alpha dual purpose  hop with a big unique aroma, described as a
combination of citrus and passionfruit.  Used in Widmer Galaxy Hopped Barley
Wine.
Used For: Good for bittering with tropical fruit flavors and very fragrant.
Pale Ales, IPA's, Barley Wines
Substitutes: Simcoe, Citra, Amarillo any IPA type Hop.
 
GALENA
10-12% Bittering
Medium aroma but pleasant hoppiness.  Bred from Brewer's Gold by open
pollination. Excellent high alpha acid hop with balanced bittering profiles
paired with acceptable hop aroma.
Used For: Very bitter, but blends well with finishing hops. American ales,
stouts and lagers. Suitable for all beer styles.
Substitutes: Nugget, Cluster, Chinook.  
 
GLACIER 5-6% Finishing
Pleasant aroma of citrus mixed with sweet fruity of pear or apricot.  Aroma
seems to be the strong suit of this hop.
Use For: American ale or ESB
Substitutes: Palisade 
 
GOLDING
4-5% Finishing
Refined Gentle, Fragrant and pleasant with flowery tones,  that has produced
some of England's best bitters.
Used For: Classic English ales, kettle hopping, dry hopping, spicy flavor. All
English-style beers (Ales, ESB, Bitter), Belgian-style Ales
Substitutes: Kent Goldings, Fuggle, Willamette. 
 
GREEN BULLET (NZ) 9-11%  Bittering    
A high alpha hop with fruity and resiny flavors and floral aromas, from New
Zealand.  Considered a bittering variety typically for Lager, Green Bullet also
carries a solid Styrian characteristic of subtle spiciness which finds it at
home in a freshly drawn pint of Bitter or an Irish-style Dry Stout.
Used For: Lagers, some ales and stouts
Substitutes: 
 
HALLERTAU-Domestic
5-6% Finishing  
Named for its origins in the Hallertauer region of Germany, this is a noble
aroma hop with ever-so-subtle flower and spice fragrances defining its
&ldquo;über alles&rdquo; superiority.
Used For: Good all around bittering and finishing. Stock ales, Altbiers,
Belgian ales, and Continental style lagers. Pilsner, Bock, Lager, Wheat
Substitutes Mt. Hood, Liberty, Crystal. 
 
HALLERTAU-German 3.5-5% Finishing
Traditionally a superior German aroma hop. Mild to semi-strong aroma , the most
popular variety. Excellent flavor.
Used For: Versatile bittering and finishing. Wheats, Altbiers, Pilseners,
Belgian ales, American and German lagers.
Substitutes Mt. Hood, Liberty, Crystal. 
 
HALLERTAU HERSBRUCKER 3-5% Finishing
Drier, spicier than Hallertauer. Most important aroma variety in Germany.
Used For: Aroma and flavor. German ales and lagers.
Substitutes: Mt Hood 
 
HALLERTAU_MITTELFRUH
3-5% Aroma
Typical characteristics of a hallertau mild and pleasant aroma
Use For:Good all around bittering and finishing. Stock ales, Altbiers, Belgian
ales, and Continental style lagers. Pilsner, Bock, Lager, Wheat
Substitutes: any Hallertau 
 
HERALD 11-13% Bittering
New high-alpha acid dwarf hop. Not much info available.
Used For: Primarily bittering
Substitutes: 
 
HORIZON 12-14% Bittering
A cross between Brewers gold and German(probably Hallertau) aroma hops bred in
Oregon.
Used For: American ales and lagers.
Substitutes: Magnum 
 
HULLER 4-6% All Purpose
A universal hop for both bittering and aroma.
Used For: Bitters, German ales and lagers
Substitutes: 
 
KENT GOLDING - U.K. 3-5% Finishing  
Refined Gentle, Fragrant and pleasant with flowery tones.  Traditional old
English hop. Referred to as East Kent Goldings if grown in East Kent, Kent
Goldings if grown in Mid-Kent, and  Goldings if grown elsewhere. 
Used For: Classic English ales, kettle hopping, dry hopping, spicy flavor. All
English-style beers (Ales, ESB, Bitter), Belgian-style Ales
Substitutes: Goldings (British Columbia), Fuggle, Willamette. 
 
LIBERTY  3-5%  Finishing
American cousin to Hallertau with very similar flower and spice
characteristics, mild and pleasant, quite fine. Best used as a finishing hop in
German-style lagers.  
Used For: Finishing. American and German ales, Lager, Pilsner, Bock, Kölsch
Substitutes: German Hallertau, Mt. Hood, Crystal.\
 
LUBLIN -Poland 3-4.5% Finishing
Mild and typical of noble aroma types. Another source of the classical noble-
aroma type hop with long and strong traditions. Widely believed to be a clone
of Saaz.
Used For: Finishing
Substitutes: Czech Saaz, Tettnang 
 
MAGNUM
12-17% Bittering
A German thoroughbred with limited Pacific Northwest plantings. Prized for its
high bittering value, the aromatic nature is one of spice and citrus, but is
minimal compared to its big bittering.  
Used For: Pale Ales, IPAs, German-style Lager
Substitutes: Galena 
 
MILLENIUM 14-16% Bittering
Very similar to Nugget hops in aroma and flavor.  Some descriptors included
floral, resiny, and a bit spicy/herbal.
Use For: American Style Ales
Substitutes: Nugget, Columbus 
 
MOTUEKA (NZ) 6.5-7.5% All Purpose
An excellent hop in many applications from first kettle additions through to
late.  This hop offers a unique aroma and flavour making it suitable for
producing bigger more traditional style Lagers, especially Bohemian Pilsener.
Excellent when employed in multiple additions from a single hop bill and sits
well on the palate to balance speciality malt sweetness. An excellent variety
for Belgian Ales and gives a real edge to Cask Bitter.
Substitutes:" 
 
MT. HOOD
5-8%  Finishing
Hybrid of Hallertau with similar mild flower/spice aroma characteristics with a
hint more of the forest. &ldquo;Clean&rdquo; commonly describes it, with
similarities to the German Hallertau and Hersbrucker varieties 
Used For: Aroma and flavor. American and German ales and lagers.
Substitutes: German Hallertau, Liberty, Crystal. 
 
NELSON SAUVIN (NZ) 12-13% Bittering
Described to have a white wine fruitiness of "crushed gooseberries".  A hop
that requires judicious application in the brew house, this truly unique dual-
purpose variety can be used to produce big punchy Ales as well as subtle yet
bitter Lagers. The fruitiness may be a little overpowering for the un-
initiated, however those with a penchant for bold hop character will find
several applications for this true brewer's hop.
Used For: ales and lagers
Substitutes:  
 
NEWPORT 10-17% Bittering
Mild aroma.  Fairly pungent, resiny flavor.  An Oregon original derived from
Brewers gold, Mittelfruh, Late Grape, Belgium 31, and Fuggle.  Newport hops
were bred as a potential replacement to Galena based on their resistance to
mildew.  Widely used by the Rogue Brewery.
Used For: virtually any style
Substitutes: Galena  
 
NEW ZEALAND HALLERTAUER 8-9% Finishing - All purpose 
Bred from the German Hallertau Mittelfrüh, this aroma hop is characterized by
woodsy, citrusy notes and a clean taste that has staying power.   Higher alpha
makes it an acceptable bittering hop as well. 
Used For:  Organic Pilsner, Lager, German-style beers
Substitutes: Hallertau Mittelfrüh 
 
NORTHDOWN  7-10% Dual Purpose       
Mellow English higher alpha-acid hop.  Similar to Northern Brewer, but with a
better flavor and aroma than domestic NB; A clean bittering hop.
Used For: General purpose bittering, flavor and aroma for heavier ales. 
Porters.
Substitutes: Northern Brewer, Target 
 
NORTHERN_BREWER
7-11%  All Purpose
A true dual-purpose hop containing moderate amounts of alpha acids combined
with an acceptable aroma profile.  Neutral, clean aroma, woody with evergreen
and mint overtones and slightly higher-than-average bittering value.
Used For: Good for bittering with strong flavors and very fragrant. Steam
beers, English-style Ales, ESB, Bitter, Porter, and German lagers.
Substitutes: Galena, Perle. 
 
NUGGET
11-16% All Purpose  
Strong heavy and herbal, spicy aroma and high bittering value (along with
desirable growing traits) has brought this hop variety to the forefront of the
industry.  Selected from a cross between Brewer's Gold and a high alpha male.
Used For: Extremely bitter. All Ales, Stouts
Subs: Chinook, Galena, Cluster 
 
OLYMPIC 11-13% Bittering
Moderate aroma. Similar to Chinook and Brewers Gold.
Used for: Mainly bittering. Stouts and Dark ales.
Substitutes: Brewers Gold, Chinook, Galena. 
 
OMEGA 9-11% Bittering
A very new very bitter hop.
Used For: General bittering lagers, ales, stouts
Substitutes: any high alpha 
 
ORION 6-8% Finishing - Flavor
Classic Noble style, Dual Use hop from Germany.  Not much info available
Use For: German ales and lagers
Substitutes: any noble hop 
 
PACIFICA (NZ) 5-6% Finishing
The Pacifica brings something of a blend of new and old-world taste descriptors
to the brewers' forum. Orange marmalade aptly describes the citrus aroma notes
achieved through late addition.  Bittering quality is such that early kettle
additions net a soft yet solid finish even in highly bittered beers.
Used For: Aroma Hop in multiple styles
Substitutes:  
 
PACIFIC_GEM (NZ)
15-17% Bittering
A pleasing fruity aroma of blackberries with a woodsy flavor are the essence of
this variety used mainly as a bittering agent in organic beers.
Used For: Organic Pale Ales, IPAs
Substitutes: 
 
PACIFIC JADE (NZ)12-14% All Purpose
The aroma of this hop is described as &ldquo;bold&rdquo; as it delivers a
herbal infusion of fresh citrus and crushed black pepper.  The citrus aroma and
flavour notes work well to temper malt sweetness in &ldquo;fullish&rdquo; Ales
especially when used moderately as a finishing hop.
Used For: Dry Lagers
Substitutes: 
 
PALISADE 6-9% Finishing
Aroma described as floral,  Subtle Apricot,  Grassy or  &rdquo;Pretty&rdquo;.
Non-aggressive, smooth hop flavor with a fruity, non-citrusy aroma more
characteristic of english style Pale ales.
Use For: Baetter for Aroma and flavor in english style ales despite the high
alpha.
Substitutes: Glacier 
 
PERLE
7-9% All Purpose
A palate-pleaser with its moderate,pleasant, minty clean bittering qualities
and refreshing, spicy "green hop" aroma.  Derived from English Notheren Brewer.
Used For:  bittering and good  aromas. A wide range from Pale Ale to Lager to
Stout
Substitutes: Northern Brewer, Cluster, Galena 
 
PHOENIX 10-12% Bittering
Attractive English aroma (sources say similar to challenger) with high alpha-
acid.  Use as an aroma hop were reportedly dissapointing.
Use For: English Ales including porters, stouts, ESBs, and bitters.
Substitutes: Challenger 
 
PIONEER 8-10% dual Purpose
New dwarf variety with clean bitterness and mild English aroma.  Unusual
pleasant lemon/grapefruit citrus aroma distinctively hoppy.
Use For: English Ales, ESBs, and bitters.
Substitutes: Yeoman, Herald, Omega 
 
PRIDE OF RINGWOOD (AU) 7-10% All Purpose
Quite pronounced aroma but not unpleasant, citrus-like. At the time of release
in 1965 it was the highest alpha hop in the world. closely associated with such
famous beers as Foster's Lager.
Used For:  Predominantly bittering but with interesting aromatic qualities.
British ales, Australian- style ales and lagers.
Substitutes: Centennial, Galena, Cluster 
 
PROGRESS  5-8% dual Purpose
Simular to Fuggles but a little sweeter. aka UK Progress and Wye Progress. Bred
from Whitbred Goldings Vareity but with an assertive fruity aroma.  Robust,
Fruity, Lime. M. Jackson called them &ldquo;junipery&rdquo;.
Used For: Widely used for real cask ales. English and Scottish ales
Substitutes: Goldings and Fuggles. 
 
RIWAKA (NZ) 4.5-6.5% Finishing
powerful grapefruit &ldquo;citrus&rdquo; characters are literally
breathtaking.  A punchy addition to the new-world styles of Pale Ale and
regional Pilseners. A cult hero that is established in the New Zealand craft
beer culture.
Used For: Pale ales or any hop dominant ale
Substitutes: 
 
SAAZ
3-5% Finishing
The Old World steadfast standby made famous by Pilsner Urquell possesses the
aromatic blend of earth and spice notable in European nobles. Low bittering
value.
Used For: Finishing, very flavorful. Bohemian-style beers, Continental lagers,
Wheats, Pilsener lagers.
Substitutes: Czech Saaz (some would claim there is no substitute), Tettnang
(Only in a pinch), U.S. Saaz (some would claim there is no substitute) 
 
SANTIAM 5.5-8% Finishing
Resembles a Noble hop aroma. Herbal. Floral. This is a mixture of Tettnanger,
Mittelfruh, Cascades,and who knows what else. Aroma is a suggestion of
Tettnanger.  Another product of Corvallis Oregon (Go Beavers!).
Used For: American Lagers, German Lagers and Ales, and Wheat beers.
Substitutes: Citra 
 
SAPHIR 3-4.5% Finishing
Refined, sweet, mild clean citrus, hint of tangerine. It was bred with a
Hallertau parent and probably a long list of other hops to make it more
commercially viable.
Used For: Plisners, German lagers, Belgian whites
Substitutes: Hallertau Mittelfruh 
 
SIMCOE
12-14%  - Bittering - Flavor
Aromas of passionfruit, apricot, Intense pine and woodsy aroma adds to the
fresh, youthful vigor of this complex hop.  Dual purpose but generally
considered a bittering hop.  
Used For: American Ales, IPAs, Double IPAs
Subs: Amarillo Cascade Centennial (a blend of these might come closer)
 
SLADEK  - Czech  9-10% Finishing   
Hybrid aroma variety of Saaz type with excellent impact on hoppy taste and
aroma of beer. New dual purpose Czech hop.
Used For: Lagers
Substitutes: Saaz 
 
SORACHI ACE
13-16%  Bittering 
A Japanese winner by all counts with its powerful lemon aroma, high bittering
value and flavorful personality.  
Used For: American Ales, lagers, Pale Ales, Wheat
Substitutes: 
 
SOUTHERN CROSS NZ 12% Bittering
The aroma is characterised by a heady mix of lemon peel and pine needles
layered beneath the clean spiciness.  Primarily a bittering hop but reported to
have a nice mellow aroma as a late addition hop.
Used For: Australian Lagers
Substitutes: 
 
SPALTER
3-6% Finishing
Traditional German noble hop.  A Saaz alternative, Aromatic and flavorful.
Used For: Great in German lagers
Substitutes: Saaz, Tettnang, Ultra 
 
STERLING
6-9% Aroma - Bittering
Herbs and spices dominate, flowers and citrus around the fringes. Moderate
bittering values with a mix of Saaz and Mt. Hood properties.  
Used For: Ale, Pilsner, Lager
Subs: Saaz, Mt Hood 
 
STICKLEBRACT 9-11% Bittering
Noted for its  piney, citrusy aroma. May give a unique New Zealand twist to
English beer styles. Coarse, high-alpha acid variety.
Used For: primarily ales
Substitutes:  
 
STYRIAN_GOLDINGS
4-6% Finishing
Delicate, slightly spicy, soft and floral. A world renowned aroma hop with
widespread usage in both ale and lager brewing. An ecotype of Fuggle grown in
Slovenia.
Used For: Bittering, finishing, dry hopping. english style ales, Vienna/
Oktoberfest lagers, Belgian ales, Pilseners.
Substitutes: Fuggle, Willamette. 
 
SUMMIT (Dwarf)
17.5&ndash;19.5% Bittering 
Quite new on the scene (2003) but the consensus is very positive with its
&ldquo;peak&rdquo; bittering value coupled with robust citrus notes of orange,
tangerine and grapefruit. Receiving accolades as an ideal hop for the ultimate
Pale Ale.
Used For:  Pale Ale,  IPA Drifter Pale Ale, Widmer Brothers
Substitutes: Simcoe 
 
SUN 15-16% Bittering
A super alpha hop. Not much info on this one.
Used For:
Substitutes:  
 
SUPER ALPHA (NZ) 10-12% All Purpose
Slight fresh grassiness beneath a mix of aromas such as pine needles and
lemongrass.  A very versatile hop in the brew house where it can be used to
deliver a very crisp bitter edge on the back pallet as well as excellent aroma
qualities. Like most New Zealand varieties the exceptional oil profile sets it
apart as a hop with many applications. 
Used For:
Substitutes:
 
SUPER_GALENA
13-16% Bittering
uper Galena is a super high alpha variety developed by the Hopsteiner breeding
program and released in 2006. It has relatively high contents of both alpha and
beta acids, making it a good bittering hop with pleasant aroma. Super Galena is
comparable to Galena in its aroma and bitterness profile, but offers a
substantially higher yield and complete resistance to all current hop powdery
mildew strains found in the U.S.
Used For: Very bitter, but blends well with finishing hops. American ales,
stouts and lagers. Suitable for all beer styles.
Substitutes: Galena, Nugget, Cluster, Chinook. 
 
TALISMAN   7-9%        
An improved Cluster variety. Not much more info available.
Used For:
Substitutes: 
 
TARGET
10-12% All Purpose
Widely used for high alpha acid content comined with an acceptable aroma.
Pleasant English hop aroma, quite intense.
Used For: Robust bittering. British ales and lagers.
Substitutes: None really quite like it, maybe East Kent Goldings or Northdown. 
 
TAURUS  12-15%  Bittering
Ultra high-alpha acid variety of Hallertau, giving medium bitterness. It has a
distinctive hoppy tang with a delicate aroma.
Use For:
Substitutes: Magnum, Citra, Tradition 
 
TETTNANG
4-5% Finishing
Fine, very spicy, mild, floral, very aromatic. Recently established in the
U.S., traditional German variety, true noble aroma variety.
Used For: Finishing. Wheats and lagers.
Substitutes: Saaz, Spalter, Ultra 
 
TOMAHAWK
14-17% Bittering
Earthy, spicy, pungent, with some citrus overtones.  Not overwhelmingly citrus
like Cascade.  High on the bittering scale yet also valued for its oil content
creates a hop that is an interesting dichotomy of sharp and herbal.
Used For: Bittering American style ales, stouts
Substitutes: AKA Columbus ,Zeus 
 
TRADITION
10-13%  Bittering
High-alpha acid Hallertau variety with German characteristics grown to replace
Hersbrucker.
Use For: Lagers, Pilsner, Bock, Wheat, Weizen
Substitutes: Magnum, Hersbrucker, Taurus 
 
ULTRA 3% Finishing
Newer domestic aroma variety with Saaz characteristics. Very fine, mild, spicy
with floral notes. Bred as a substitute for Hallertauer Mittelfrüh.
Used For: finishing hop for Pilsner and German style lagers.
Substitutes: Hallertau, Any Noble hop, Crystal, Liberty, Mt. Hood 
 
VANGUARD 4-6% Finishing
Slightly flowery, mild.  Similar to Hallertau Mittlefruh and saaz in aroma.  A
gentle hop for subtle bitterness, aroma, and flavor.
Use For: Use in not-so-overly-malty beers.   Light lagers, Pilsners, Kolsch,
Wheat, and Munich Helles.
Substitutes: 
 
WARRIOR 14.5- 17.0% Bittering
Grapefruity and lemony, some piney notes.  Also saw pineapple as a descriptor. 
Its high bittering value and very mild aroma offers new dimensions to IPA &amp;
Double IPA brewers.  
Used For: bittering big beers like Dogfish Head IPA.
Substitutes: About any high alpha 
 
WILLAMETTE
4-6%  Finishing
The king of aroma hops in the U.S. with its modest bittering value and the
joyous harmony of flowers, fruit, earth and spice. A quality aroma hop with a
smooth soft flavor. 
Used For: Finishing, dry hopping. American and British ales and lagers.
Substitutes: Fuggle, Styrian Goldings, Kent Goldings.  
 
YEOMAN 9-14% Bittering
A popular bittering hop in the U.K.Similar to Targets.Not too available in the
U.S.
Used For:  British ales and lagers
Substitutes: Target 
 
ZENITH 9-10%
Has a good aroma.Not too available.If found can be used in
Used For:  British ales and lagers.A.A
Substitutes: 
 
ZEUS
14-17% Bittering
Earthy, spicy, pungent, with some citrus overtones.  Not overwhelmingly citrus
like Cascade.  High on the bittering scale yet also valued for its oil content
creates a hop that is an interesting dichotomy of sharp and herbal.
Used For: Bittering American style ales, stouts
Subs: AKA Columbus ,Tomahawk
